Welcome! This month will focus on how we can serve Jehovah with rejoicing. As
parents know, a child is a source of great joy as well as challenges. We'll see
how the good example set by these parents influenced their children. When you
think of God's promised new world, do images like these come to mind? How do they
make you feel? We are sure you'll enjoy a glimpse of the future in our new
music video. And we'll learn how our joy is enhanced when we express
appreciation for our family, for our congregation and for Jehovah. This is the
February 2020 edition of JW Broadcasting. To set this stage, we'd like to begin
with a few thoughts about this subject, serve Jehovah with rejoicing. This is
what we're told at Psalm 100 verse 2. But do you serve Jehovah with rejoicing
all the time? I guess we all will agree that at times it can be difficult to be
happy. So then is it really important to serve Jehovah with rejoicing? And what
does it really mean? In other words, what is this joyful attitude that Jehovah
expects from us? And what can we do to serve Jehovah with rejoicing and
maintain a joyful spirit? How can we prove that it is important to serve
Jehovah with rejoicing? You might think of our goal, which is to reflect his
personality. In 1 Timothy 1 verse 11, he's called the happy God. So isn't it
logical that Jehovah expects us to be happy in his service? In Deuteronomy
chapter 28, we find a report of God's dealings with these relights. Here, Jehovah
warned them of what would take place if they became disobedient and lost their
joy in serving him. We read at Deuteronomy chapter 28 beginning in verse 45,
All these curses will certainly come upon you because you did not listen to
the voice of Jehovah your God by keeping his commandments and because you did
not serve Jehovah your God with rejoicing and joy of heart when you had such an
abundance of everything. Jehovah took such good care of these relights and yet
they were not happy. This attitude was something he did not like at all. So we see
that serving Jehovah joyfully is very important. This was emphasized by what
Jesus taught. For example, in the sermon on the mount, he helped his audience to
understand how to be happy. At times, this part in Matthew chapter 5 is referred
to as the nine happy-nesses. Later, the Apostle Paul wrote about the
fruitage of the Spirit. Joy is counted among the aspects of the fruitage of
the Spirit. Being joyful is important and by means of his spirit, Jehovah helps
us to rejoice in his service. But is it realistic to expect that we all smile
all the time and cheerfully sing songs the whole day? Of course, this is not
what Jehovah expects. We all have different personalities and express our
happiness differently. Also, there are moments in life when we are sad and
disappointed. And Jehovah is fully aware that some of us are not healthy.
Others might fight depression and are therefore at times just not able to
express joy in this way. And yet, he loves all of us and appreciates us very much.
So then, what is the joy that Jehovah expects from us? What exactly is this
joyful spirit or attitude? Here in Dutronomy, the term rejoicing means the
inner feeling and the outward manifestation of joy. And we also read about the
joy of heart. The heart stands for what we are on the inside. This is the
interior man and is displayed in all his various activities, desires,
affections, emotions, passions, thoughts, and so on. And so we see that joy
comes from within us. Yet, does the joy we are talking about depend on
circumstances? Let's illustrate. I think it's safe to say that we all like sunshine.
However, how does the farmer feel when he urgently needs it to rain? And he's waiting,
and waiting? He probably would be happier if he had rain.
In these last days, we rarely, if ever, have perfect circumstances with no problems.
So I think we can all agree that our joy in Jehovah's service is not based on
circumstances. And we've had here on this program and in our publications, many examples of
ones who have maintained their joy in Jehovah's service despite challenging circumstances
like poor health or opposition. So then what is it that makes us a happy person?
To help us to open up the scope of the answer, would you be willing to join me for a little
experiment? Please close your eyes for a moment. Do you have your eyes closed?
So now, think about an apple. Now you can open your eyes again. Let me ask you a question.
Did you think about a red apple, green apple, or a yellow apple? Why are you able to answer
this question? All I asked you to do was to think about an apple. The answer is we think in
pictures. In fact, we think of countless pictures every day. And after we think about it,
it's like we put all of the pictures in a stack. And then when we think the same thought a
second time, it's like we pull the picture out from below and put it on top of the stack.
The longer that we do not think the thought, the deeper the pictures gets in the stack and it
becomes more difficult to remember. Now, this stack of pictures representing our thoughts
is our subconscious. This stack of pictures makes up our emotional state or state of mind.
It determines whether we are sad or happy, whether we are bored or excited and so forth.
And Jehovah our Creator is aware of this powerful connection between our thoughts and pictures.
Let's please turn to 2nd Kings chapter 6 to find one example of how Jehovah made use of this.
Here, we find the report about the King of Syria who wanted to capture Elijah.
How did his attendant feel? Let's see at 2nd Kings chapter 6, beginning with verse 15.
When the attendant of the man of the true God rose early and went outside,
he saw that an army with horses and orchards was surrounding the city. At once the attendant
said to him, Alas, my master, what are we to do? The attendant was in fear. He probably thought
about their defenseless position and saw himself already captured by the Syrian army.
Would Elijah be able to help his attendant? Verse 16. But he, Elijah said,
And do not be afraid for they are more who are with us than those who are with them.
In other words, Elijah said, think of something else. Think of the many that are with us.
Did this work? It seems the attendant was not able to focus on these reassuring thoughts.
He could not envision Jehovah rescuing them. How did Jehovah help the attendant?
At 2nd Kings chapter 6, verse 17, we read, and then Elijah began to pray and say,
please, that he may see. Immediately, Jehovah opened the attendant's eyes and he saw and
looked, the mountainous region was full of horses and orchards of fire all around Elijah.
And Jehovah helped the attendant with pictures. The horses and chariots captured his attention. His
thoughts now focused on the fact that Jehovah was with them and in full control. Now in his mind,
he already saw Jehovah's victory and he was not concerned anymore. He was happy. What he saw
influenced his thoughts and changed his state of mind. Thoughts are so powerful.
And how considerate Jehovah is. Remember, in the end, Jehovah did not need any of these horses
and chariots. He saved Elijah and his attendant by striking the Syrian army with blindness.
When we compare the emotions of Elijah with his attendant, what made the difference?
The circumstances were exactly the same. Their thoughts made the difference.
Now, what does this have to do with our subject? Serve Jehovah with rejoicing?
So far, we have established that Jehovah expects us to be happy, right?
We have seen that our thoughts can be pictures that influence who we are and how we feel.
Pictures and thoughts are closely connected. That's why the Apostle Paul at Romans 12 verse 2
highlights the importance of our thoughts when he said,
be transformed by making your mind over. Or at Ephesians 4 verse 23, he emphasized this by saying,
and you should continue to be made new in your dominant mental attitude.
Both Scriptures highlight that our thoughts are critical and have a bearing on our whole being.
Additionally, the Apostle Paul knew that we can change our thinking. Please turn with me to 2nd
Corinthians chapter 10 and see what he recommends that we do. Here in 2nd Corinthians 10 verse 5,
he says, we are bringing every thought into captivity to make it obedient to the Christ.
Isn't this exactly what we should do? We control what we think. We avoid occupying our mind with
thoughts that we can our faith or thoughts that undermine our determination to serve Jehovah.
Remember we said, thoughts are like pictures that stay within us. We cannot delete them
and they will have an effect on how we feel. But is there something else we can do? Are you ready for
a second experiment? Please close your eyes again and do not think of an apple. You can open your
eyes again. Were you successful in not thinking of an apple? If so, you probably have to force
yourself to think of something else. We are made to think. So the key for serving Jehovah with
rejoicing lies not just in avoiding negative thoughts, but also in thinking healthy thoughts.
Philippians chapter 4 lists a few of them. We read in verse 8,
finally brothers, whatever things are true, whatever things are of serious concern,
whatever things are righteous, whatever things are chased, whatever things are lovable,
whatever things are well spoken of, whatever things are virtuous and whatever things are praise
worthy, continue considering or thinking about meditating on these things.
By considering and meditating on these healthy subjects, we create pictures in our mind that
make it easier for us to display our joy in Jehovah's service. Serving Jehovah with rejoicing
really depends on us. Happiness does not depend on our circumstances. Happiness comes from doing
things Jehovah's way. When we actively control our thoughts, we add more pleasant pictures. And even
if, in the past, we've experienced things that make it difficult to express happiness,
in time, these unpleasant pictures will be buried under thoughts like those listed in Philippians
chapter 4. And gradually, our inner peace, contentment, and happiness grows and can be seen by others.
Jehovah our happy God appreciates every little step in this direction because it's important to
him that we serve him with rejoicing. In our first video, we'll learn another way to serve
Jehovah with rejoicing. You recall, Jesus said, there is more happiness in giving than there is
in receiving. And isn't it true that when we give commendation, praise, and words of appreciation
to others, we experience joy. In the following interviews, notice why some hesitate to express
appreciation. We'll see how they were helped by applying lessons they learned from the watchtower.
I work as a pioneer and also as a commuter at Bethel. I find the service to be very enjoyable.
However, because of my busy schedule, at times I almost forget to express my appreciation to the
brothers and sisters. I wanted to express my appreciation to my wife, but I found myself feeling
bashful in doing so. I knew something wasn't quite natural. Generally, expressing appreciation is
considered to be a virtue. But I realized that I needed some kind of stronger motivation.
Although all 10 lepers must have been grateful, yet only one person returned to give things.
I suddenly realized that even if I feel appreciative, I might fail to express it.
Esau was an impatient man. In contrast, David thought deeply about how wonderful pure worship is.
I came to realize that it is important to think deeply. One sister was visiting a very sick
sister almost every day to help her with shopping and looking after her very tenderly.
As I thought carefully about why she was doing so much and how she felt, I felt deep appreciation
while up in me. Jehovah richly rewards us. If Jehovah desires to express his appreciation,
what kind of person am I if I don't show it from the heart? Perhaps I might be thinking to myself
that I deserve to be appreciated, since I am the one providing for my family, aren't I?
I started thinking about how Jehovah wants to reward my wife. That made me want to interact with her
with kinder words. I feel that the way I look at her and my facial expressions by changing as well.
It gets easier to resolve disagreements quickly. I also feel that we are growing closer and
closer as a couple. By expressing appreciation, I feel very happy. My relationship with
brothers and sisters within the congregation has gotten better and the bonds of friendship between
us are stronger. I realized that the reason why Jehovah encourages us to express our appreciation to
others is for our happiness. That drew me even closer to Jehovah. Expressing appreciation may not
come easy for some. As we saw, we may be busy with our spiritual routine. Perhaps we are shy.
We may need to make a special effort to get to know our brothers better. But what's the result
if we do? We draw closer to them and to Jehovah, and that makes us happy.
And being part of a loving family can bring us great joy. It also comes with responsibilities
as parents, as children, and as siblings. And the following dramatization will see how three
siblings decide how to honor their elderly mother. And please note how vital good communication
and the family is. This wasn't the first health scare with mum. And my brother and sister were
always quick to help out. But this time was different. She'd be here for at least another week,
then more long-term care. We just weren't prepared for that. I should have accepted more help when
the friends offered. I just didn't want to be a burden. Janice understood and she was wondering
how this might affect her Bethel service. Terence wished he lived closer so he could do more.
We decided to pray, sleep on it, and regroup after doing some research.
Share the example of Joseph at Genesis 45, where he told his father,
you must dwell in the land of Goshen, where you will be near me. I will supply you with food.
He didn't let a long distance get in his way of caring for Jacob. He took practical steps
and made his care a priority. Janice and Terence found great articles too.
Offering solutions, such as asking for periodic help, making more time to communicate with mum,
or even getting a part-time nurse. We weren't prepared for her situation to change so suddenly,
but Jehovah is guiding us through each new challenge. And with his help, we're honouring mum,
making her care our continual priority. In this traumatisation we saw one way that a family
decided to care for an aging parent. Of course, situations will differ from one family to the next.
Each must make a prayerful decision based on their circumstances. If you and your family
are seeking the right way to honour your elderly parents, what can help?
Bible principles. And we saw in the video open and candid communication. This coupled with
respect and love will help you make a good decision. Now we'll look at the joy and
challenges that come with raising children. We'll travel to Alaska and the United States
to visit the Bodhi family. Let's see what we can learn from the example set by the parents'
Dale and Nachah. We were serving in a small town in Alberta, and then we began having children.
When we moved to Craig, we had four children, and after living here, we now have nine children.
You're given this trust, and so as a parent, you need to put the kingdom first. You need to set a
good example. You need to be at the meetings. You need to be regular in field service.
We really believed that we needed to love Jehovah first in order to be a good example,
church order. They helped us see that what would make us happy were spiritual things.
My parents, more in action than in words, taught us to seek first the kingdom. With nine kids,
it's always going to be hectic. You have extra children. You have more excuses, perhaps.
Having nine children is a challenge in a million ways.
And yet, yeah, she had moments where she'd sit in her rocking chair and just look so exhausted.
I remember one time when it was time to go to the meeting, but I was so exhausted, and I thought
of Isaiah 40, where Jehovah says that those hoping and Jehovah will regain power.
So I figured, Jehovah wants me to do it. She's going to make me strong enough to do this, so
I prayed, and I got ready. It's a scramble. In Hebrews, we see the encouragement
to never forsake our meeting together. My dad always spoke of that.
There was a time that we had to travel in the wintertime, maybe up to two hours to get to the
the meeting. You'd come back to your home late at night, you know, with all these kids that are
worn out in yourself too. Seeing the importance that they placed on the meetings,
I was able to see that you never take meetings for granted.
My parents always instilled in us the consistency with service, just like meetings.
It just was what we did. That wasn't questioned. We got up on Saturday morning and we got ourselves
out the door and in service. We couldn't simply just be back seat ornament. We knew that we were
there to give a witness. From an early age, we were really following the example of our parents
in showing interest in people. So because of that, we enjoyed being in the ministry.
It gave me a sense of purpose. I had people to go visit in service. I had to know what I was
going to talk to them about and have a plan. In field service, we would often take breaks for
the sake of the children and ourselves. It was important to have our children enjoy field service,
not push them hard and be too rigid and so forth. I think about Proverbs 22 verse 6 and the
Bindington translation where it says to give a boy the start his course requires. They did that by
putting the spiritual things before the material things. Java helped us to be the best parents we
could be. We failed at times but I always knew that Java was the best parent so if we could teach them
to love him, then he would take over. While we as a family were successful because we did have
Jehovah in our lives, all our children are doing very well in the truth and so we're very happy
about that and I'm sure it makes Jehovah happy. You may not have nine children or seven or five or two
but can't all parents learn a valuable lesson from the Bodys? A very important lesson was mentioned
by one of the daughters. She said, our parents more in action than in words taught us to seek first
the kingdom. Yes, despite the many demands of a busy household,
Dele Naja put the spiritual needs of the family first. It was their example that had a wonderful
influence on all of their children. Next we'll hear from Father Stephen led of the governing body.
He spoke to the Bethel family about an enemy of joy and where to find the antidote to it.
Now my theme is guard against every sort of greed.
Jehovah lovingly gave counsel to Jeremiah's secretary, Barrett, to stop seeking great things
for himself. Now what were those great things? Well, we don't know for sure. Perhaps prominence
or material things are both. But what bad quality was developing in Barrett's heart that Jehovah saw
greed and the insight book defines greed as inordinate or repacious desire. The dictionary says
it's a selfish, excessive desire for more of something such as money than is needed. So in
effect, Jehovah was telling Barrett, stop being greedy. And in extended application, Jehovah tells
us the same thing. Now echoing Jehovah's counsel to Barrett is what Jesus tells us if you'll open
up to Luke chapter 12. And let's read our theme scripture here, Luke 12 verse 15,
similar counsel from Jesus. Luke 12 verse 15, then he, that is Jesus said to them,
keep your eyes open and guard. Now notice against every sort of greed. Because even when a person
has an abundance, his life does not result from the things he possesses. No, what makes it a challenge
though for us to guard against every sort of greed as Jesus counsel. Well, our three great enemies.
In fact, let's discuss each of these and how it makes it a challenge. Now first, our imperfect
flesh. At Genesis 821, Jehovah said the inclination of the heart of man is bad from his youthful.
And one form of badness is greed. This tendency toward greed becomes manifest very early. For
example, as we see little toddlers grab things and hold them tightly. Mine, mine, mine. See,
that greed is starting to manifest, isn't it? When people look at a little toddler, they may say,
what a cute little boy. Or he has his mother's eyes, his father's nose. But they never invariably say,
look at that little toddler. What an unselfish little toddler. No, it takes a lot of effort, doesn't,
to teach that little one to be unselfish like Jehovah. But now what about our second great enemy,
Satan? What was Satan's downfall? It was greed. He allowed greedy desire for something that
belonged to Jehovah alone to develop in his heart. And what was that greed for worship? And
he wants his downfall to be our downfall. He wants to ensnare us in greed. So he tries to magnify,
intensify our wrong tendency to be greedy. And if you think about it, how was Satan able to
entrap the perfect woman Eve? He entrapped her in greed. He got her to crave desire what
belonged to God alone. See, in effect, he said to her, eating of all the trees of the garden minus
one tree is not good enough. You should crave that one tree that has not been given to you.
In fact, let me please illustrate how greedy Satan made Adam and Eve, how greedy they were.
I'd like you to imagine that you have guests staying in your home. And you say, now, I really want
you to make yourself at home while you're here. You take them into the kitchen. You open the
refrigerator, all kinds of food here, the cabinets, the pantry, everything you could imagine that you
would want to eat. It's yours. Help yourself. Don't even ask. But then you pull out one little
drawer. And you say, now, I've set aside some items for a later occasion. Please, it's very
important. Do not eat from this one drawer, but you'll find other items just like in the drawer
in the pantry and the cabinets. You'll have everything you need. Now, would that be overly restrictive?
Would that be an unloving arrangement with your guests? It'd be very generous, wouldn't it?
And in effect, that's the arrangement you'll hold the maid without him and Eve.
But now, back to the illustration, if you came into the kitchen and you found your guest eating
out of that one drawer, you had not given them. You'd be very upset when you
and you'd probably view it as stealing and you likely would put the thieves out of your house.
So that illustrates how Jehovah felt and how Jehovah reacted. But what a protection
being content with what was rightfully hers would have been to Eve. But now, what about our third
great enemy? The world. We are relentlessly surrounded by Satan's world and his spirit
called the Spirit of the world. We could say that Jehovah breathes Holy Spirit
to influence his people to act like him and be unselfish. But Satan, in effect, exhales
the stinky spirit of the world that makes people act like him in being greedy. And one way
Satan's world promotes greed for material things is by the relentless advertising. See, people are
constantly bombarded with advertisements. For example, here's just an example. They may bring out
a shiny new car. It has about 12 coats of wax on it. They get all these spotlights shining on it.
They bring in a camera from all different angles. And about this time, a scantily clothed
the woman comes strolling out to that automobile. And you'll even notice it that there's soft
music playing in the background. As she opens it or gets in, a crescendo is reached in the
background music. You're made to feel you poor poor loser. If you don't have that car, see,
they don't talk about the heavy payments. You're going to have to make how many meetings you're
going to have to miss to make those payments. You poor loser. If you don't have that car. And
similar advertising methods are used very often in promoting many other gadgets and material
things. So obviously, we have to fight hard against the spirit of the world so that we don't allow
it to nurture greed in our hearts. In fact, if we're not careful, our love for Jehovah
could be squeezed out by love for money and love for material things. And if this happens,
rather than conquering the world, as Jesus did, the world will have conquered us.
Now, it admittedly is a great challenge to fight these three great enemies and
avoid, as Jesus counseled, every sort of greed. But now think of that. Jesus indicated,
not just one sort of greed, one kind of greed. Greed can take on various faces,
manifestations, see, but we're to guard against all of them. What would you say is the antidote
that can immunize us against the poison of greed? Well, is it not contentment, see? For example,
one sort of greed, we talked about greed for material things. Well, contentment will immunize us
against this terrible form of greed. We're familiar with 1 Timothy, chapter 6 and verse 8.
So having food and clothing and the footnote adds shelter, we will be content with these things.
So contentment really protects us. And in effect, that's what Jehovah was telling Barat. He was
telling him, you have what you need. Stop storing up great things or seeking great things.
Be content with what you have and do more important things. And then he gave a powerful reason
while Barat should do this. Jehovah told him in Jeremiah 45-5, for I'm about to bring a calamity on
all flesh. So if you get the mastery over this, I will grant you your life as a spoil. Well,
the same applies to us, doesn't it? Jehovah is soon going to bring a calamity on all flesh,
and so we need to be content with what we really need and seek first, the kingdom. We're just temporary
residents, aren't we? That's what first Peter 117 says. Now, here's an illustration about a temporary
resident. I like you to imagine we rent a venue for our regional convention. Now, you may do a few
things to make the stay more comfortable in that venue. For example, you may do thorough cleaning.
You might do some touch-up painting. Might repair some broken toilets or light fixtures, but
you would never paint and plaster the entire stadium inside and out. You wouldn't rip up the seats
and put all new seating in. You wouldn't tear out the parking lot, put in a new parking lot,
because you know, you're just a temporary resident. You're going to vacate that place after the
weekend. Now, unlike the illustration, we don't know exactly when we're going to vacate, but we know
it's soon. So we keep it simple. We're just temporary residents. Another sort of greed, greed for
prominence, but being content with how generous Jehovah has been and giving us so many privileges.
We'll protect this from this greed. It would have protected Korah in Moses time. Another sort of
greed is greedy sexual desire. If we're single or married, being content with what rightfully
belongs to us, see what really be a protection, it would have protected David from his sin with
Bashiba, or there are other sorts of greed, such as gluttony and drunkenness. But the antidote for
all of these is contentment. Contentment with what is rightfully ours that Jehovah has given to us,
and if we are successful in guarding against every sort of greed, then we'll be on hand to enjoy
the marvelous time when Jehovah will open his hand and satisfy every proper desire of every living
thing. Full-time service is a special way to serve Jehovah with a joyful heart. But what happens
to your joy when you suddenly face a serious trial? Jay and Elaine Hummer, you have been through this.
Thank you for being here today to share your personal experience with us. You've enjoyed
full-time service for over 40 years. Many of those years in the traveling work.
Yes, we've had a wonderful privilege of both pioneering and serving the traveling work for
30 years now. And we really feel Jehovah is very kind to allow us to serve in this way.
I remember when I first filled out my application for regular pioneering back in 1972 and I thought
this was my gift to Jehovah, my sacrifice. But after the many years of the blessings and the
privileges and how Jehovah helped us through some very difficult times, what I thought was my gift
to Jehovah turned out to be his gift to me. This is very encouraging, thank you. Now you mentioned
difficult times. Is there anything in particular you think of? One of the hardest things that we faced
was about 20 years ago when we experienced seven deaths in just a six-month period.
This really was difficult because five of those seven were family members.
Jay's father died. My aunt Elma who brought me into the truth died and my father died. So
it just seemed one layer on top of another. We can hardly imagine how you must have felt. Now after
such a job-like experience, what did you do in order to regain your joy and happiness?
Well, it didn't occur automatically. We kept focused, of course, on serving the friends and
working with them. And that kept our thoughts from constantly circling around our losses.
We also thought about the resurrection. We focused on the resurrection hope. And as we did, it became
like the hell out of salvation, protecting our hearts and our thoughts from the grief that we were
going through. And then, of course, we shared our hope with others. And that helped us to have
more deeply engraved on our own hearts as well. Yeah. Thank you. So now, maybe learn from you what
you did in practical terms. The most difficult of all was about four years after that,
when our beloved nephew Christopher was killed in an auto accident at the age of 17.
He and his parents had lived with us in the same house for a number of years before he went on
the road. And we always looked at Christopher like the son that we would never have this side of
Armageddon. So his death was particularly tragic. It was excruciating for all of our family members,
especially his parents. Christopher was on his way to the kingdom hall to meet his papa and his
grandmother for field service. And his car hit a patch of ice and slid into an oncoming car.
He died instantly. This was so difficult on us. Our hearts were broken and our spirits were nearly
crushed. It actually rendered me speechless even to bake for the groanings on uttered became
very difficult. I didn't speak to Jehovah for three days, but I was listening. What do you mean by
listening? I remember when we were all together as a family and my sister just happened to say that
Christopher had been cremated. We were there making arrangements for the funeral. And it just hit
me so hard. It was just it just hit hard enough that I fell down and I just cried. I laid
there on the floor. And I thought about perhaps maybe Mary felt this way when she said, Lord,
if you'd only been here, this wouldn't have happened. But as I laid there, I could hear my
sister say, go get her Bible, read her her favorite scripture. And so J did. He turned to Psalm 91,
a Psalm that I had already memorized. And now I began to hear Jehovah's voice.
So was this listening to Jehovah at one time occurrence? No, by no means. I really had to now do my
research. So I searched for every article on the resurrection. I searched for every scripture
on comfort. And I meditated on the artwork, the pictures and the publication. I remember one
particular scripture that really touched my heart. It was from Psalm 56 verse eight. And in
there, it said, you keep track of my wandering. Do collect my tears from your skin bottle.
Are they not recorded in your book? And I thought about Jehovah taking such notice of us,
keeping track, watching over, even collecting every tear and recording each of them. That
truly made me draw close to Jehovah. So you continued to listen to Jehovah by looking at comforting
material from the publications. Was there a specific article you think of? There was an article.
It was about a delicate flower that had been bent over after a rainstorm, the kind of cloud
burst that would send humans and animals running for shelter. But not this flower,
here it was intact, bent over, but unbroken and still rooted. I thought about us in that same
way. The article said that we can no more avoid losing a loved one than this flower could
uproot itself and run for cover. It had to endure it. But the article spoke a great deal about
hope and about faith. Hope is our anchor and hope is our preserver of our spirituality. And faith,
James chapter one, verse three, stated in there that faith when it succeeds,
we're able to endure. And so that's exactly what happened. It's softened the grief. And so like
this flower, we too would stand up and smile one day. And we did. I remember the first time I
smiled inside. And I thought, Oh, Jehovah, you truly by a healer of hearts.
So did you do something else? Now I started looking for some of the artwork in the publications.
And one particular picture I found was of a shepherd who had gone into a bramble bush and rescued
a lamb. He was lost. He pulled him out through him over his shoulders and held on to him. And I
thought, what a safe place to be, such security. I decided to take the picture and to print it out
and just enlarge it a little bit. But what I didn't see on the publication page,
I saw when I enlarged it and that there were scratches on the shepherd's face. And I thought,
what that shepherd had gone through to go in the bramble bush and pull them out. And then I
thought about Jehovah as our great shepherd. And the links that he went to rescue us even at the
cost of pain for himself. Now I was listening and drawing back close to Jehovah. So then,
what did you do with these articles and the pictures? So now I decided to print them all out.
The articles, the pictures and the scriptures. And I displayed them on my desk for quite some time.
But I put them in a big envelope or like a file. And I thought, that was Jehovah's sympathy card to me.
We knew we had to do something so I was not to be swept away by our grief. It's been said that
grief is an arduous journey, but one that we cannot avoid. It's not a place where we live,
but a passage as it were. And we know that even though grief never goes away, it does change over time.
That's because Jehovah made our hearts to heal. And so in time, that's what we did.
Yeah, you sure did. It's not about the lack of faith. It's simply the price of love. We love
Christopher. And we miss him. It wasn't like we were leaving him behind. Sometimes that's how you feel
when you lose a loved one. But in reality, we know that Christopher is in Jehovah's memory.
And as the righteous God, Jehovah never forgets his loyal ones. Christopher was one of them.
So we're confident that we're going to see him again. And that's what helps us not to be as
a we're looking always in a rearview mirror, but looking ahead to the time when we will be with him
in paradise. You know, Jehovah truly kept his promises and he carried us through that storm.
He gathered up the pieces of our broken hearts and sealed them. And even though this happened
17 years ago, sure, we still have cracks in our hearts, but we know for certainty those one day
will disappear as well. And that paradise when we welcome him back home. And so Jehovah truly
proved to be my stronghold, my father and my friend in a profound way. We learn that Jehovah
truly does love us and care, protects us. And because he is such a good father, our joy has come
back and we have had such a rich life. So in all the years we've had the privilege of serving our God,
we've always found it no matter what we give Jehovah, no matter what sacrifices we make for him.
He always gives us more. You can out our generous, the most generous person in the universe.
And so just as he has blessed us all these many years, we're confident that he will continue
to bless us as we transition to our next assignment. Thank you so much for sharing your personal
experiences with us. And may Jehovah continue to be with the two of you as you now continue your
full-time service as special pioneers. And may you be able to apply the principles that you are
just mentioned so that Jehovah can continue to guard your hearts. Thank you.
As we discussed earlier, happiness does not depend on our circumstances but on our thoughts
and our outlook. And we can influence our thoughts by what we picture in our minds eye.
We'll see that beautifully brought to life in our new music video entitled The New World to Come.
Picture the scene up ahead on the path or what seemed to be.
Children laughing at play in a world free of the fears we once faced.
And taking care of this beautiful earth are a people that live by our father's words
until the moon is no more. There is the peace we have been waiting for.
We will feel his love under the rule of his son in the new world to come.
Like a son as we see ourselves there in the new world to come.
Take a moment now and think of our place by the mountains and rivers or wide open plains.
It's a place to call home and not walking in through your front door.
There is someone that you know holding out his own.
I'll be tearful in red. Feels like forever since you've been face and never knew he sent it out.
You'll probably want to listen to that song again and again or you might even want to sing it
yourself. Our hope is one of the things we want to focus on.
And this will have an effect on us. It will contribute to us being joyful.
Let's conclude this month's program with a visit to a truly beautiful part of the earth,
Martinique. This island in the eastern Caribbean measures just 50 miles or about 80 kilometers by
22 miles or 35 kilometers. Yet Martinique nicknamed the island of flowers has stunning geographic
diversity with beaches, forests, rivers, sugarcane plantations, and rugged mountains.
The highest point is Mount Puli, infamous for causing the deadliest volcanic eruption in the 20th
century. When Puli erupted in 1902, nearly 30,000 people died because they ignored the warnings.
This tragedy is often discussed by our brothers in the ministry. Today, more than 4,700
publishers and 62 congregations share the good news in eight languages, including French,
English, French sign language, Arabic, and Creole of Martinique. They conduct more than 4,500
Bible studies, nearly one per publisher. Over one million tourists visit this beautiful island
every year, many by cruise ship. This presents a unique preaching opportunity.
The city of Lamarain hosts 55,000 boaters annually. Here, our brothers preach sailboat to sailboat.
This is the city of Latsinite, a Creole of Martinique congregation was formed here two years ago.
Today, the congregation has 91 publishers and 10 regular pioneers. They preach in the countryside,
the foothills, wherever people can be found. Our brothers and sisters in Latsinite Martinique
sent you their warm, Christian love and greetings. From the world headquarters of Jehovah's Witnesses,
this is JW Broadcasting.